Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
So is it okay if I hit record for them? Okay, cool. So we are joined by John Hill.
John Hill is a big name at Tech Stars. His formal title is Techstars Evangelist so flies around the country spreading the good word of tech stars but today he's here to teach you guys about network and that's really John's superpower.
So I'll teach you all about how to take advantage of the tech stars network and then a few things about LinkedIn.
Brad kind of gave you guys a foreshadowing about that, but feel free to think of questions that you may have for John after everything we've told you about him and then I'll just give the floor to you.
Okay.
You're awesome my friend. Tell everybody I said, hey. I so I am John Hill. I'm the evangelist at Texars.
Fancy term for storyteller. I've been in this role for a couple years. On behalf of Texas, I think I've spoken in 43 countries now and 43 or 44 states.
So slowly checking off all those ego. Metrics. But what it's allowed me to do is work with the best entrepreneurs on the planet.
And I see ecosystem after ecosystem and the one beautiful thing about entrepreneurship is it's the same everywhere.
And also your primary needs. Are the same no matter what funding, talent, customer acquisition, knowledge share, and mentorship.
And so, first 8 years, the reason that I know that I surveyed founders heavily as VP of network.
My role was to cross connect the entire, Texas entrepreneurial network, founders, mentors, investors, corporate partners, community leaders on and offline.
And then before that I worked at a little company you may have heard of before called LinkedIn.
I was infused in a product team there. We built 5 products that reach about 85 million people in the timeframe I was in that role.
I and I ended up being the lead product walkthrough specialist for the organization. I also an evangelist at LinkedIn.
So I've held that. Role that nobody understands twice. I, I started in, career services.
I actually cut my teeth as a journalist and studied history. I, my dad used to say it was allergic to money.
But, I ended up an editor for National Sports Magazine and I I was the youngest person in the company.
I the organization had a circulation of 1.3 million. We did pre-sis the annual for college football, college pro basketball baseball golf.
As the college basketball expert used that term loosely and I, I had the CEO walk in my office one day.
And say, hey, you're the youngest person in the company and we need to. We need to start a website.
Can you help us out? And I, had no technical acumen whatsoever. I was just young and I'm like sure so this 1997 higher programmer we pulled them in literally on you've never heard the story by by the way because I've just recently started telling it.
But I hired a programmer and started building a website and through that process I realized that web one.
Open up an opportunity to engage people. I'm essentially utilizing sports as a way to cut through marketing clutter and I built a company.
I in the build of that company, I started pitching Fortune 500 companies, what we were trying to do to help them reach their respective customers.
And I ended up pitching at Jim Beam, Dixie, Savannah, Pepsi, 1 million dollar programs and they were buying them and I think it was cause I was young.
I made every mistake you could absolutely make as an entrepreneur like every single one. The whole experience for me was lonely, mentally taxing, the only other tech company in the area.
I was in Nashville, Tennessee. I was in a company called Rivals that did message boards for, athletics.
So we commiserated with each other. But I had no mentorship. I had no investors. I mean, everything that was happening around entrepreneurship were on the coast, on entrepreneurship were on the coast, specifically New York and San Francisco at that time.
And in the Tennessee region, if you own entrepreneurship, we're on the coast, specifically New York and San Francisco at that time.
And in the Tennessee region, if you owned a used car lot, you were an entrepreneur, so they didn't even know what I was.
I ended up leaving all my equity on the table. That company still exists. This is one of the reasons I don't talk about it.
I they generate revenue on an annual basis and I see nothing from it. So that was the moment in my career where I was like, I'm gonna help entrepreneurs any way shape or form I can forever.
And I'm gonna utilize organizations as vessels to do that. I, 2,009, recession hits in the state of Michigan.
I'm the director of alumni care services. And I do some novel things around LinkedIn to retrain the workforce within the state in our alumni base, which is what led me to getting hired by LinkedIn.
But also was part of a group that wanted to change the wind around automotive and government, which worked together.
In the state and create another pillar around economy. So I, we brought the first TEDx to the state of Michigan first ignite.
First startup weekend, started the first university accelerators, first creative spaces based on like Richard Florida's creative class approach.
The first I incubators really the first places that were co-working spaces for entrepreneurs and then turned our burgeoning social networks to support innovators, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs within Detroit and again change the wind in that space.
So I'm now on 27 years of supporting, helping, commiserating, helping, commiserating, engaging with entrepreneurs, of supporting, helping, commiserating, engaging with entrepreneurs.
This is life's work and I've never felt like I've had a job and getting to engage with entrepreneurs.
This is life's work and I've never felt like I've had a job and getting to engage with all of you.
And I've never felt like I've had a job and getting to engage with all of you makes this like the most special job in the world.
I am like super humbled to be able to get in front of people again again, again, again, like this.
This is the 270 s time that I've given this talk, power the network. So I've done it a few times.
I am actually out of my sweatshirt, or, but, it's the Boston, 2,014 program is the first one I did And it's been just a heck of a ride.
So what I'm gonna try to do today is give you as much of an optimized version of how to navigate relational capital, a great opportunity.
For all of you and again to satiate those primary needs funding talent customer acquisition and knowledge share and mentorship.
I'm gonna go through scope and scale of the network, so what it looks like now. So you have an idea of what you just walked into because really it's your Tahoe experience or it's this zoom right now.
I, for Texas, but it's so much broader than this. We did eventually build the most effective, largest entrepreneurial network in the world.
And I'm gonna try to help you tap into it. As effectively as possible. So I'm gonna run through at the speed of light.
In Boston right now. I am born in Boston. I grew up in the area. Your conversation are irrelevant if you don't talk fast as I get going I talk faster and faster if you need me to slow down let me know I just get excited so like that's what's gonna end up happening here.
The cool thing is every time I give this presentation it's different because I use inputs from all of you.
To show it. So I'll actually show you through your eyes and how to navigate the relationships and we'll do that real time.
I'm highly interruptable. So like I have like 12 h of material in my head. If you want to go deeper in an area, let's do it.
And we'll go and drill and I'll tell you if I can't. But if I can, I'll go as far as you want to go on things.
I, and, you know, like I'm here for best interest of all of you.
So I, I unfortunately, obviously through an experience like this can't meet all of you one on one.
What I can do is give you my contact information and if you want to send set up time to talk.
I and I can go through like a 30 min talk to learn about your company and then also show you how I would navigate relational capital and specifically tech stars.
That's what like the success of the company.
To expedite the success of your company. You know, feel free to connect with me on John.
Yeah.
Hill@techsars.com. And I think somebody, there we go, off mute.
Super easy to find on social. I'm at Texar Shawn on Twitter, on threads, on Instagram, any future social.
I'm John Hill. I'm LinkedIn. If you can't find me, you're not looking. I promise.
Super easy to find there. So best way to characterize me in like the tech stars ecosystems, like I'm like Morgan Freeman and the Shawshank for redemption.
I'm like guy who can get you things. Texas is my prison yard. It's probably where like the analogy falls down a little bit, but like I'm a good person to know.
So just keep that in mind. And to give you an idea of what you just walked into and for me it's like mind-blowing to see how far we've come.
You are now part of 9,000 founders and participants who have gone through a tech stars program today. Like that's a small university.
And again, like I've spoken this talk, 271 times, which means over a decade.
We've developed a network around founders that is supportive of itself. What that means to all of you is your foundation for building relationships are these people.
All these people who are in the same situation or were in the same situation you're in right now.
They've gone through the credibility lens to get into tech stars. You don't have to double off to any of these people.
You're not to go through me or Lilian or Neil or anybody associated with, tech stars.
You can just direct connect with them. And I'll tell you how I would. Best design that network in a bit, but just know like these are your friendlies connect with them ad nauseam.
Alright, so second group to look at here are mentors. We've actually had 12,000 mentors.
Mentor, a textures program to date, 4,000 active in last year. And what I always love to talk about with the mentors.
And what I always love to talk about with the mentors, I was in charge of the Global Mentor Network for 5 years.
Is what are their motivations and what it bubbled down to was really 4 main reasons that mentors connect with all of you through us.
It's really 4 main reasons that mentors, connect with all of you through us. It's really 4 main reasons that mentors, connect with all of you through us.
We don't pay them so it's on their own volition. The number one reason that people mentor is altruism.
They just want to give back. That's like a super easy one to engage with. The second one is important for later in this presentation.
They want insights into And, and that's a give that you have and I'll define that a little bit, more deeply in a bit.
Third, they're interested in their own opportunities, boardwork, advisory work, sea level positions in your company.
4, they're interested in qualified deal flow. So if they get to know you and they like your product in service, they'll marry those 2 things.
Together to invest in you. So that one is also important. We're gonna get back to that in a bit.
But mentors, you can fly out ask them why are you mentoring they'll generally tell you and then you can communicate accordingly based on which bucket they fall into.
So the last one are investors. 23,000 investors have been invested in, have invested in a tech Sars companies to date.
Just a little trick for all of you. Best way to become qualified deal flow for an investor is to get an introduction for somebody they've already invested in.
So any investors you're looking at that have invested in Texas companies, reach out to those Texas founders and ask for an introduction into the investors.
Obviously, broker the relationship a little bit while you're doing that. This is an underutilized part of the tech source network for founders, partly because it feels like a separate group.
But we acquired up global startup. We can start up weekend in 2,015. We operate that in a hundred 70 countries and we have about 1,500 people leading ecosystem work.
To develop startup, we can start up weekends in their respective countries. Which means anywhere you go in the world, there's somebody who understands the lay of the land.
The corporates that are friendly and the approaches to take with them the talent that's within the market.
The other entrepreneurs, the innovators, they can give you an idea. Of how to sell into or how to live or how to start an office within those spaces.
So great people to reach out to. So for me, I the reason that I've stayed at Texas for a decade is this network.
It is unbelievable. We've collected some of the best atoms in the world and you know I'll teach you how to smash against the other Adams here.
But I always love this slide, because of David Cohen at the center of it.
Yeah, he's actually the reason I'm here. David, one of the founders, in 2,006, tech stars started, that was the MD of the first accelerator in 2,007 in Boulder.
David, David Brown, Brad Feld, Jared Polis, 4 people who like get this off the ground, but Cohen is kind of like my spirit animal in a way like he's the person who kind of guides me directionally.
I and I was working at LinkedIn in 2,013 and while I was at LinkedIn, I was the external face.
So I spoke at 200 universities, 110 conferences and higher education, 23 countries while we start trying to get people to adopt our product.
Specifically faculty and staff. So if any of you are working in universities, we should definitely talk.
But I used to do those conferences and I would run into these little ed tech companies that I absolutely fell in love with and I'd give him like access to our API, our preferred partnerships with, LinkedIn at the time, anything I can do to help them.
And a couple of those companies were tech source companies. And so in 2,013, that summer, David Cohen sent out a note to, the founder network.
They're about 280 companies at the time and said we're looking at building a alumni network similar to a university.
Do you know anybody who might be able to help us with that? And my name floated up a couple times.
And so in August of 2,013 I got a call from Ari Newman who was in the first program of Texas with his company Filterbox and was a third acquisition ever in the history of Techs.
And David Kahn, I brought him in to help start to think about how do I build structures around.
Post program connectivity. So. Historically what had happened as you go through this 13 week program, we were surrounded with mentors and investors knowledge share similar to what you're going through right now.
And then when you graduated, there was no connection back. That was structured. So it was all ad hoc.
And so Ari had started the first steps, but I talked to him. While I was like driving into LinkedIn one day.
And I was supposed to be a 15 min conversation turned into 2 h and I was fascinated about what he was talking about, which was building an alumni network in something that was historically transactional, venture capital.
And like connecting a emotional attachment to it because what you go through through this program is the best.
Apply to education on the planet. And the proximity develops relationships that can be utilized long term.
And so like that was novel like corporates hadn't built alumni networks yet. Venture hadn't even started on the idea of platforms yet.
And so this was like all new. And so I agreed in October of 2,013 to fly out to Chicago.
Because Texas was having an annual event to bring all of their founders together called Founder Con. To meet with David Cohen and David Brown, 2 of the founders to tell them how if I were them, they should build out an alumni network similar to a university, to support all of you.
I so it was on my way to speak in London. Stop by Chicago for like 3, 4 h and I pitched them on what I would do.
And in the course conversation, David goes, hey, I think we can build a large, most effective entrepreneurial network in the world.
And I'm like, yeah, that's a little bit hyperbole. And by the way, I work at LinkedIn, we already did it.
But, you know, like I appreciated where he was coming from and it was definitely a beehag, a big hairy audacious goal and then it was one of the hooks.
But for me, I've always been a believer of karma. And, utilizing your network.
As a vessel to support other people's dreams and how that like circles back into you. And so I'm caught on stage 15 years ago talking about give, give to your network with no expectation of never receiving, pay it forward.
Like these ideas that you just need to be a good purveyor of relationships and networks. And you know, whatever happens downstream happens.
David was articulating something super similar to that. I had never heard a corporate. Define what he was talking about, which was like we have this emotional connection through an experience like this, like all of you are going through right now.
How do we optimize for that to support and help each other out? Right? How do we create this as a collective?
And I, and what he was defining was the major hook that got me here. Which was this idea of Gib first.
And it's simple an application like if I reach out to one of you in your textures and I'm tech stars expectation as you respond.
You've already gone through the credibility lens. I don't have to worry about any of that, right?
And then if you reach out to somebody else in the network and they have something that you know like they might be able to give you with advice or help or introduction or whatever they respond, right? That's it.
Okay.
Is super simple. In application but unbelievably powerful and develop large scale networks and so like using this as a premise this is your opening to the entire network.
Yeah.
I'm gonna start to take you into a walkthrough on LinkedIn to show you how you can actually tactically navigate this network as effectively as possible.
So this next 2530 min is why they pay me this will be the opportunity for me to show you how you can navigate these relationships as effectively as possible.
And, so let me start with, a kind of a general premise that the vast majority of you are on this platform, but you're not on it strategically.
And there's a reason for that. Linkedin's UIUX sucks and somehow through time in OCR they've made it suckier so they hide some of the best value on this platform.
So I'm gonna start to uncover this for you. And I'm gonna start with something that's super unique to LinkedIn.
But I also unbelievably powerful for you to see the relational capital emanating out of your organization right now.
So if I go into my network, your network, hey, my friends, if I go into contacts.
I can actually export all my first level connections out of LinkedIn. If I select this little radio button, hit request archive, LinkedIn will send me a CSV file.
To my email of record, of all my first level connections, names, titles, companies, industries, and any in-mail communication we've had on platform.
A CSV file, fence term for Excel. And what I can do with that is what I like to call a relational swap.
So I can start to look through my relationship space on job type based on decision maker, whatever. And I can see where I'm strong on relationships and I can see where I'm weak.
Which allows me to create strategies to hire in to the people who can fill the bucket, who have the relationships I don't have right now, or work to build my relational network that covers the people that I need to get into and connect into.
I connect with. Now I can take that a step further. If you are a company with 2 3, 4 or 5 people right now, if you were all to download your connections and put it into one file, or 5 people right now.
If you were all to download your connections, put it into one file, do you do it?
You have every relationship emanating out of your company right now. And again, from an aggregate level, you can do that relational swat.
So you can start to see from an organizational standpoint where you're strong on relationships and where you're weak.
I always find it fascinating. All of you will develop strategy cheese around product development or go to market or whatever, but you rarely do this around relationships, which I would argue are the most important thing associated with your buildup company.
Now, one of the things that doesn't come out in the CSV file or emails. They are on all the public profiles, and that's actually an important, point to stop at for a second.
LinkedIn's terms of service. Did you a incredible solid all your first level connections I that are public have agreed to communication both on and off platform, which means on platform.
In mail off platform through email. So if any of you were trying to do business in places like Europe, GDPR is a gating for communication.
The emails that you send that are first level connections past GDPR muster. All you have to do is have an opt out.
Now getting them, you're probably going to have to copy and paste into that. Csv file, Excel, but none of you are going to do that.
You can go into Discord, through Texars universe and ask if any Texas founders have built a script that matches the emails to the data that you just took out and that CSV file and invariably they have.
I always wanted your muff at that point because I'm a former spokesperson for LinkedIn.
And I'm essentially telling you how to scrape data and now I'm being recorded saying that, but whatever.
We'll keep it internal. That's a promise.
Yeah, fair enough. But, you know, like I tell you that because you do have access, if you need it.
So if I come back to the homepage, I don't actually like this search. It's an iterative search.
So as I type it tries to figure out what I want. I actually like going through data and if you think about the 1 billion users on here, it's the biggest repository of professional data and affiliate data in the world.
And there used to be an old way to navigate the relationships and the navigation on here. That still exists.
So I come here, I can go to this search with filters. And this was the former primary navigation just hidden back here.
People jobs companies groups. So anybody who's had a profile for more than 10 years will remember that.
Still love that could go through any of those but I'm actually gonna focus on that since defaulted to all my first level connection.
So you can see I have 11,000 connections. And I'm gonna go through 2 principles that are super important for me.
Right now with you on a relational standpoint, but I wanna go back to this in just a second and this.
But I'm gonna stop sharing. And I just talk about a little bit of. How you build, what I call a quality network, against a quantity network.
So I'm big believer in that. And the second principle that I'll talk about is how to build, to build a network before you need it so it's there when you do.
And that one I was actually learned by the work that I did as director of alumni care services.
It Michigan State University. When the automotive industry drove off the cliff, we 260,000 alumni directly are in directly tied to the automotive industry those people had only built CVs and resumes around automotive. They'd only built networks around automotive.
So when the jobs dried up. They didn't have the opportunity to jump into other verticals because they hadn't built the networks to do so.
Right? That's where I got that lesson from. For all of you, the corollary for that is if your first, connection with an investor is asking for money, you failed.
So we're going to start to I'm going to teach you a framework to build relationships with investors of sport and help you out.
And by the way, and about the next 15 min, I will give you 3 lead lists that are in your network around investors that you can use right now.
So you can follow along with me when I'm doing that. But the quality network actually came from the work that I did at LinkedIn.
So the university initiative, which was the initiative I was on. Was a pet project. I'm from, Reed Hoffman and Jeff Wiener.
And, I, so they kept us close to the vass. And if any of you, I know San Francisco, especially the peninsula, pretty well.
We were in Mountain View at 2029 sterling court. So like, think of Google's campus surrounding this one little courtyard.
We were the courtyard in the LinkedIn offices there. And our little cubicles looked at Reed Hoffman's office and at the time Reid was writing a book called The Startup of You.
That book itself you don't need to read because I'll give you the the principal, outcomes or takeaways on it.
But what he was trying to do is look at, how what relationships were most important for you to navigate the job search.
What do you found was super profound. I found that 85% of job opportunities to a relational networking come out of not who you know.
A first level connection, but who they know. A connection of a connection. He called these people week ties.
I love that that happens with a P sign. Call these people weak side, tie it in ties, and I would surprise your business development, your sales, your investment, opportunities, talent opportunities is not about school, you know, it's about who they know, it's about who they know, it's about who they know, it's about who you know, it's about who they know, it's about who they know, the connection of a connection.
Now, while he was doing that, he also tried to show what were the most effective relationships at a first level. Who would move messaging to a second level.
So how can you build the most effective quality network to optimize connection here? And he found that there were 4 universal affiliations that we all share that create a robust quality network.
And this is global. The number one affiliation, that we all have most effective at moving messaging from A to B is friends and family.
Now the challenge with friends family is a lot of times their networking and big enough to help you out are aligned with what you do.
I'm an evangelist. I was a network catalyst before that I was at Evangelist before that.
Very family doesn't even understand my job titles, let alone how to help me out. So I got to go to the second affiliation, which was university affiliation.
So that's actually why they built our initiative. It was based on some of the data that Reed was seeing on velocity of messaging from alumni to alumni student alumni back to institution.
Third was shared work experience. So, those networks super powerful. And you can utilize them through the course of your career, giving an example, having worked at LinkedIn, I connect into just about every company and San Francisco because people I used to work with now work at all those companies right so it's leverageable network that way.
Fourth is anything you do to support yourself professionally. Groups you attend associations you're connected to events you attend so that was the framework with building quality networks through the data and research that we did with sort of view.
We never made that public. And I, whatever I signed, on behalf of LinkedIn.
Expired 5 years ago. So I can, you know, speak about it pretty openly.
But the cool thing about that is that becomes the structure for how you build networks and leverage them.
Now, he actually was able to put numeric value, he never posted this, but through, the data, friends and family move messaging from a first level, second level, 75% of the time.
So this through LinkedIn. University affiliation was one in 3. What that means is if I went to a university and there are 3 people who work at Google who went to that university and reach out to all 3 expectations to data as one of them will respond to cold outreach.
Shared work experience was one in 4, 25%. So it's formulaic like nobody thinks about relationships this way, but it is.
So it's like kind of fastening when you break that down. What I want to share with all of you is what you just walked into.
A Techs, because it probably still hasn't hit you yet. The credibility lens is one thing.
Like that's a big deal. Like going through that process to get selected here. But it's the emotional connection that we've been able to stoke through things like this through, you know, post like this through, you know, postoke through things like this through, you know, post like Cohen does through the MDs through the MDs through the structure of this program where you help and support each other
out. Through the MDs through the structure of this program where you help and support each other out.
And just to prove out how much you are already tech stars by show of hands, if somebody at Texas were to pick up the phone and give you a call outside of this group anywhere in the world and say, Hey, I want to learn about you or want to, you know, talk a little bit about your company or whatever.
By show of hands, how many Right? And if you don't raise your hand, you're going to help.
And I don't have that power and I'm Irish Catholic, so I'm gonna feel guilty about that for the next 24 h.
But the point is all of you raised your hand, right, or most of you. Having been in charge of the techs network, I believe that founder to founder interaction is completing 2 out of every 3 times, about 65, 66% somewhere in there.
Which means this is the highest professional affiliate network I've ever seen and it's just shy of friends and family.
That's what you've walked into. It's one of the reasons I've stayed here a decade.
I don't think I'll ever see anything like this again. And it's the gift for you, to navigate to help expedite the success of your company.
So let's watch this in practice. To navigate to help expedite the success of your company. So let's watch this in practice.
And here's where I'm going to give you, the success of your company. So let's watch this in practice.
I'm in here's where I'm going to give you, immense value back, because I'm gonna show you how you can both, find the data you need to help, build out your company and, how you can, optimize the messaging, to, mobilize your first level connections to get into psychological connections. So I'm gonna start by looking at my universal people, my first and second level connections.
And you can all follow along with what I'm doing. It's not gonna bother me at all.
And so now I can see 1.7 million people that I personally can reach. And I can see who relates to each one of those people.
And just like, and as a side, he doesn't normally come up here. Stephen Darby, created our first logo for tech anyway, if I wanted to start the first lead list, for investors, I'm gonna come down here to industry.
So industry, is, the taxonomy is based on what are called, NAICS codes or NII CIS codes or whatever they're old SIC codes, their government designation by industry utilized by tax for tax purposes globally.
So every country in the world uses this definition of industry. And they're like umbrellas.
So they're in perfect, but they're perfect for one thing for all of you. One of the industry codes that is here is venture capital.
So now I can come in to select all the people who are first or second level connections that are in venture capital or private equity.
And I can see 84,000 people. Now this is where I need your help in this presentation. We're going to go into chat in a second.
I am not gonna go through 84,000 people. I don't think any of you are gonna do the same thing.
And so now I want to start to match the thesis of the investors. So like the words that we have in commonality.
So those people were most likely to be interested in companies like me. So if a couple of you can in chat tell me what your companies are doing.
I or what verticals they're associated with, it would be super helpful. So human resources, fintech, underwriting.
Alright, I've done most of these in the past, small business. Valerie, I've got some really cool stuff for you later.
Sustainable sustainable finance. That's an interesting one. Let's go back to that.
Okay, Matthew, I am gonna, utilize you, with sustainable finance, right?
Cool.
So, finance we can essentially say fintech might be the category, right, with sustainability, sound good.
Yeah, yeah, correct.
So, one of the cool things about, how LinkedIn set up, their search, capability.
They actually allow you to search these sets as you refine them. So I, this is actually a Boolean search stolen from Google.
Let me do and and or, but if I just type words in, it's a reductive search, so it'll bring the total amount of people down.
So if I start with looking at fintech, what it's actually doing is run a site profile for anybody who's typed the word fintech into their profile.
They didn't select this. There's no drop-down. They've actually written this word, which means they are more likely to be associated with fintech because they've written it.
It means something to them, right? So now I have 2,100 people who have written the word fintech that are first or second level and venture.
Now again reductive search so I can come up here and you know let's look at sustainability.
So anybody who is written the words fintech and sustainability on their profile and I'm down to 343 right and I can see the relationships I have in common.
So where are you building this company in?
All right, in California. The area Yep.
In California, Bay Area, San Francisco. All right. So. That's almost a cheat code, but I can come down here and I can look at everybody in the Bay Area.
At a first or second level that's in venture that has fintech and sainability on their profile and how I relate to each one of them.
So like if I go down this list, Jag, was actually a tech source company.
My sister actually invested in his company because she went to Dartmouth with him back in the day.
She had that credibility lens through university. I and I see he connects into NASA. I could utilize Jag to get in or hear Cody Sims who used to be an MD for tech stars is now doing some really amazing work around climate technology and investment.
And in the entrepreneurial space. Got a great podcast to listen to. I could connect from Cody to our pen and I'd probably utilize, Tody, directly for this.
This is how I would walk through this. So with Cody, hey, you know, it's been a couple months since we talked last, but we need to reconnect, love to have conversation whenever you want, anything I can do to help you.
Don't hesitate, my friend. With our pen, an affordable email, I would say something like, Hey, my name is John Hill.
I'm building this company that's associated with fintech and sustainability. Would really love to talk to you because based on your profile I think you could give us some advice that would be helpful.
Now there's an old adage in Silicon Valley in San Francisco that if you want advice has for money, if you want money asked for advice, that's what we're leaning into.
Right? And so we're asking him for advice. On a couple different things based on read of content or, you know, like what communities he's associated with or what's on his LinkedIn profile.
Whatever research I do through Google or any other social whatever. I can ask him a couple of things about my builds a company.
Now if he ends up getting on the phone with me or we have face to face meeting and he, gives me some advice.
He's giving a piece of his emotion to me. What that means is, he now is, emotionally invested in what I'm doing.
So I'm beyond just transaction. If every interaction I have with him, I ask another piece of advice, I start to path into that fourth reason that people mentor qualified deal flow.
Because he gets to know the person behind the product and service. And I'm gauging that I'm aligned with what he does through things like search terms with fintech and sustainability.
So I'm like trying to match my company to his thesis. When I work with startups, I've set down with 2,000, view, in the Texas, world. One on one.
So that thing I offered you earlier, I do all the time. And I, Always find it interesting like at the early stage level you worry about what you have to give to other companies and the thing that you have and there's a great book that talks about the psychology about this by Adam Grant and that is a book I would buy called Give and Take.
You haven't read it is phenomenal. You have insights into what the world is going to look like and it goes back to the second reason people mentor insights into technological trends.
What I would do in this with our pan and say, Hey, I would love to share with you some of the what we've learned to date.
I think it might be interesting for you as you navigate investing into companies who are related to Fintech and sustainability.
You are more nimble than corporate, so you are more insightful and probably have more knowledge about where the category you're in is going, insightful and probably have more knowledge about where the category you're in is going for investors like you know like you're ahead of VC at this point your tip of the spear of where things are trending.
Use that knowledge as leverage to connect into these relationships and even out the give and take so that you can continue to stay in conversation with people like our pen because you're giving him as much as your taking from him.
So this is one way that we can do this. I'm gonna go back into my network and we're gonna take this back into Connections.
We'll go reset all the filters. LinkedIn's clunky sometimes, so it's hard to reset the search there.
But the problem with this industry code and venture capital. And private equity is it is an umbrella and it's imperfect.
So I can work at Amazon. I can work at Meta. I'm in the category of information technology, but I can still invest in companies.
So I can use search terms to define people. Who don't fit in that original search that I did.
This is the second lead list I'm giving you with investors. And so I can look at all the people.
Who are angel investors or have written the words angel investor on their profile or angel investing or investing.
Now again, bullying search. So I'm putting in quotes is actually taking the whole phrase off people's profile.
So these 2 words are together. So Angel Investor, people have written it on their profile.
When I do a search for that, I'm actually gonna take this out to the universe.
I can see that there are 64,000 people who have written the words angel investor on the profile, on LinkedIn.
Now, I'm gonna take it back into network and look at how many I connect to and it's about half 34,000.
Yeah. Yeah, go ahead.
John, can I ask you a question from the chat? How do you figure out if someone in this list is connected to tech stars or went through the program?
Just case by case research, question.
Yeah, so we'll get into the tech source piece in just a second. That follows, immediately after this, and I'll show you how you can do it.
And I'll show you how you should self identify on techsar. So give me 1 s.
It's almost there. But. I say pick another one. Nightlife hospitality, that's interesting.
Wine tech. Is it really called Wine Tech? Christy? That's awesome.
Is that like really a category?
I've never heard that and we're going to try it. So. Again, so.
Yeah.
Love it.
Okay, so yes, there is a category one tech. But I did retail tech just so that you kind of know the industry that we're trying to address
So what I love about Wine Tech one because I've never heard anybody use that term before so like that's surprising for me having done this so many times but second it's a very esoteric thing right so I can find the specific people that have interests in people like me.
Like if I do Wine Tech as a search, they've written this as a combination. So whoever pops up, here's the one person.
So talk to Kevin. He's a wine nerd, right? So we're done with wine tech.
That's so awesome. But you know, like if you were looking at wine as a, search term, it's gonna broaden this out.
I and then I might look at words like retail. So it's taking angel investor wine and retail.
Angel investor as a grouping. And it's a reductive search. So now all of a sudden I get a larger swath of people, 134.
Kissy, I'm gonna assume you're probably in the Bay Area, but if you're not, let me know.
I should ask you, are you in the Bay Area?
Bye. Yes. And, in fact, I split my time, between San Francisco, Bay Area and Davis, which is also.
The universe is well renowned for wine, so nicely placed.
Perfect. Well, watch what we can do here. So I can take this into. San Francisco and they metropolitan Bay Area is going to encompass almost up to Davis.
So this is the population center up there. So when I do that, I can look at the subset here, but I'm gonna actually play off what you just said with UC Davis.
I'm gonna see if I can pee back all these things together. And look at anybody who is associated with UC Davis.
And wine.
Person so nobody on that. So I'm gonna take the university out, but you end up with 9 people related to wine in retail angel investors that have a profile on LinkedIn and again I can see how I relate to each one of these people and enable them to introduce me and connect in.
And so like just as an aside, I can see a lot of these people are tech search people I'm connected to, which I know is not as visible to you.
So this goes, Liliana back to the question about tech stars. You're about to get into.
But for you, Kristi, like Mih. Was in the first program at Texas.
He worked as a principal at Madrona Ventures. He was at AWS for a while.
So he's connected in a bunch of different places that could help us out. Eli, is at in, Israel.
I and is one of our also our mentors, for tech stars, gives us advice all the time about how, we can navigate what respective networks are associated with.
Craig is what I like to call like a friendly. He actually runs a conference up in Calgary.
Called an Investors. I've known, of him forever, if you want to connect into kind of that region of Canada, he is probably the best human to do it.
So like I can see how I can connect into those people that way. But to your point, or to whoever asked that question, Liliana, how do you navigate the tech stars network through all of this most effectively?
And so we're gonna go back into that. And I'm gonna go back into search wood filters, but I'm gonna come off camera for a little bit.
Just a kinda share how if I were all of you. I would, build my network most effectively.
So. If I'm sitting in your seats right now, if I'm taking a startup through Techs, there are 4 ways that it would try to optimize build of network to support what I'm doing.
The first thing that you should all do is cross connect with each other. And you know, like I know intuitively you probably already started to do that, but like you should really try to support and engage with each other through your respective networks.
And This should be Tree of Trust for you now and 10 years from now. They take all the people who work at Texas out of the equation, take the mentors and investors that we're gonna bring in.
This group of people should be Tree of Trust, right? And you should not worry about signal. A is super hard building a company you all know that.
Right? This is the group to tell you, tell, hey, I'm having trouble with this.
This isn't working. I don't know what to do here. Or to optimize to leverage each other's networks to trust each other, right?
Through this process, you'll trust each other even more and more and more as you go. Right?
But all of you should cross connect with each other. That's the number one thing that I would do.
Now, by a show of hands, how many of you are not from the Bay Area?
Okay, so everywhere you go, there are tech stars communities. There are Texas people, every one of your markets, every city, every country, there are tech stars people.
Connect with those people by geography. So those are what I call, the coffee meetings or the team meetings or wine meetings.
Like those are the people you get together and commiserate about what it's like to build a company.
They understand the tech stars credibility lens, so our world. But they also understand what it's like to build a company and it's better if they're actually not even associated with your vertical because you don't have to worry about any of that.
And again, a great group to not have to concern yourself with signal. The third is vertical.
So all of you are in a vertical and I saw that line of verticals pop up when you were typing that information into chat.
I any vertical that you're in we have companies we've invested in that are further along than you.
Those are great people to talk to about pitfalls to avoid accelerants that are out there just like general insights on how to navigate the industries or categories that you're in.
Look for those people. And then the last, like you're all fallible. And like I don't mean that in a negative way.
You're imperfect. Do you have gaps in what you understand and build a company.
The beautiful thing is we have these thought leaders and subject matter experts in every single category that you need. So whether it's marketing or HR, go to market, whatever, we have somebody who can fill that bucket for you, fine.
The thought leaders and subject matter experts to help you fill the gaps. So that's how I would build my network.
Now we can actually look this in play. So first person like raise their hand on the screen.
I'll use who as an example. There we go. All right, so Mark, I'll have you pop off mute and let's like actually walk through how I would build it if I were you.
Mark is over there. I'm gonna I'm the CEO. I'm gonna take over this just because I've been here a bit longer.
So, we are in the Bay Area at the moment.
And look at it through search. Okay, San Francisco. So San Francisco again is almost like cheat code.
I'm like you're playing video games. You win. So like let's start with Sharon screen and we'll go through and we'll start with textures at all and then we're gonna take it down to San Francisco.
So share my screen again, pop into this presentation. Okay, so I'm gonna start with the search term, and so that, conversation earlier about, like, how do we identify people who have textures?
That was me by the way asking that question. So it's it.
I'm there. Yeah, perfect. So there are 32,500 people who have written the word text on their profile.
32,500. And I can see that on the back end on the license sales navigator.
So I those people are primarily founders, mentors, curtain informer, techs, our staff and community leaders.
Like they make up the bulk of those people. So they're all friendlies. Now there's a slice of life on search on this that is broken for that total.
I know that total is 32,500 because I can see it But when I do this search, it will come up at 22,000 21,000 15,000 or 13,000.
I've tried to get the team on search to fix this at LinkedIn and they won't.
And I still know them and they're friendlies but I can't get them to fix it so let's see what it is today.
So for all of you write techsar somewhere on your profile, it does not matter where just write it and just make sure you spell it correctly.
And that way you become, identifiable for everybody else. So when I do this search, Today the number is 22,000. Yes, sir.
It was 21,000 All 32,500 are here as I bring down search they all show up whatever reason, this slice of life.
Doesn't work and I don't I can't figure it out but I can take it a step further so if you're you're still unmuted cool tell me what your company does
So we help musicians performing musicians make more money from their gigs.
Oh, that's cool. If you follow me on social at all, you'll see my wife and I travel to music venues pretty much every weekend and we'll travel all over the world for them.
So big fan. All right.
I would love to meet some of them.
So let's do this. We will look for the search term music, right? All right, so we have textures and music.
So we have your vertical. We have your affiliation through tech. So, 911 people come up on that and then I want to locate it to a market that I'm in.
So backyard, right? So Bay Area. So are there any things that you're struggling with with build a company?
Sure, go to market is difficult.
Yeah, and it seems to be a come theme for people. So I'm gonna look for anybody who's written the term GTM.
Go to market off their profile, right? Haven't selected it, written the term. And all of a sudden I'm down to 17 people.
Who are in San Francisco associated with tech stars, our primary affiliation, in the vertical of music.
That have profile linked in and I can see how I relate to each one of them if I want to bring it down to that level.
Right? And so I can personalize network to get into those people or see how penetrative my network is.
And actually, that vertical I'm I usually am much deeper in connections, within Texas.
I'm not as much for this, which is interesting. But I see people like, you know, head of growth marketing for Amazon music.
Beth is a pretty good person to connect into, right? And I can see she's got a depth of cross connections with me.
So, you know, like Avial is former, techser's, Maya's former tech stars, as a former, or as a current founder of Techs.
Hugh, Texars, Itamar, we worked at LinkedIn together.
Dyer actually started Web Summit. It was one of the founders of Web Summit back in the day.
I which we just had him speak in an event in, San Francisco 4 or 5 months ago.
Stephanie Agresta is a good friend who's a marketing who does a lot of the motion around the speakers who come to South by.
Another good person. Meg works at Cal. Berkeley as says Kenny. So like you can see I can utilize.
Oh my god, Jamie Turner. Alright, I'm gonna give you guys a little story here.
So we'll go off you for just a second. I'm gonna go off screen. So, have any of you ever written a book before?
This is completely outside of this talk. So this is just curiosity. Nobody's written a book.
Alright, so it's like literally the worst experience in human history. So I, I, while I was at LinkedIn was asked to write a book and I was on the road 220 days a year.
So married kids, right? And then they're like, hey, go on the road non-stop.
And by the way, now in your spare time, write a book. So I'm like, all right, I'll write a book.
And I did it in about 6 months if you know how long it usually takes to write a book. That is lightning speed.
For 3 months I worked with a ghost writer, which is Jamie Turner who popped up there and I haven't talked to him in a while.
But we both poured our hearts into this book. And at the last minute, Jeff Wiener, who I respect.
President of LinkedIn. Awesome human being said, you know what? We should only have the, the executive leadership team writing books, nobody else in any other areas.
I was already listed in the Amazon bookstore. They were already set to go to print. I had poured my life into that book.
I still have all 14 chapters on my laptop. Nobody has ever seen it. I have the picture of it being an Amazon and so I'll probably never be an author again because of that experience, but I haven't seen that in a while.
So I haven't seen Jamie. I don't even know why I just bought that up to you.
I think it was just partic. So thank you for that. Anyway, Pretty helpful where you can see how you can get back down to all of these people that could support and help you out.
Now, I'm gonna go into the thirdly list that I wanted to talk about, which was, was drive from university.
So somebody put the university you went to in chat at any university in the world.
USC was quick.
Michigan State Nelson you get me. Go green. That's awesome. Alright, so I'm a Michigan State Grad.
That's so cool. So let's go back to that. Where are you at, bud?
You got it.
Alright, Nelson, come off mute for a second. So.
Okay.
That's just proof, John. That's one of the biggest affinity.
Yeah, I like I'm super stoked now. So as like I'm super stoked now.
So as like I hack for you, I'm an EIR in Michigan state. So as I show you this, leverage me in some way should perform to help you out.
Awesome.
I was actually part of the group that started the entrepreneurial program at Michigan State. So yeah, there's and I used to be the spokesperson for MSU athletics for football and basketball and so I was the Raa Raa guy as well.
But all right Nelson, do you know all the people who are VC? That went to Michigan State University.
No, no clue.
So watch this, this does. So I'm going to type in Michigan State University. Obviously all of you can follow along and use your own universities.
What you're looking for is school. If you went to a UK university for whatever reason they're calling it research services.
So like that's what you'll select. But if you, click on this, what you're looking for are what are called university pages.
So it should look like this and it should have this title alumni on it. So this was one of the products we built on the team I was on.
We map launch and occur data to a university. Attendance and create a unique identifiers for every university in the world with this.
What's really cool is Google actually reverse indexed our. Unicide nifier for university for their search.
So like they used us, even though we use them for bullying search, super awesome. But before we built these pages, I was speaking at universities on behalf of LinkedIn trying to figure out what customer needs were.
So like bringing insight back into the product team. And I are developers who to follow me around on the talks and while they were I'm building what I'm about to show you.
They affectionately named it John Hill in a box. So what I'm about to show you is my baby.
It's called the alumni tool, shows all alumni by a university. And by the way, this spent around for 12 years, by where they work, where they live, what they do, what they're skilled at, what they're studying and how you're connected to them.
So remember, University of affiliation is the most powerful affiliation. By what we developed outside of friends and family.
So this is a powerful one no matter what. And just to prove it out for my friends who are outside the United States.
Like US, Canada, UK, especially Americans, you can always tell us when we're traveling around the world because we wear the letters of our universities on our sweatshirts, right?
We stick out no tomorrow. Wrestle World, education is more transactional. But the reality is if I went to Enciad in Fontainebleau, France and did a funding run in San Francisco and ran into somebody else who went to NCAD, invariably we would have a conversation.
Brings the barrier down. So that's like what we're playing off of here. And so I want to be able to identify all the people who can help me out.
And so Nelson, one of the things I can do, and this is based on endorsements, lightweight recommendations, community are saying these people are associated venture capital.
I can also do a search for angel investor, things like that. Right? So all of a sudden with that powerful affiliation, one in 3 responsive, I can see 772 alumni that are in venture capital.
Nelson, where are you building your company at?
San Francisco.
Wow, that's a commonality. So I can now look at all the people in the Bay Area.
Nelson, what are you doing? What's your company?
It's a medical bill management. To help people, pay and error check their medical bills.
Alright, so that's an interesting one. So billing. What would a Payment payments.
Payment spilling, yeah.
That's what I was looking for. So now I can search this set for anybody who's written the term payments on their profile.
Here the search is a little bit broken because there's actually 4 or not 3, but here are the 4 people who are in venture capital that have payments on their profile that went to Michigan State University and how I relate to each one of them.
Right? And again, credibility lenses, like when I look at Christa. Anna runs a fund supporting female founders in LA, a former MD for tech stars.
The fact that they're connected tells me like I need to talk to Krista. Anish, again, David Mendez, former, managing director for our program in the Netherlands, and would be a good person to mobilize to connect in.
So like I can see and qualify some of the relationships based on who I know with tech sources, credibility lens, and then tie into university.
And again, 4 people show up. So expectation through data, even cold outreach, is one of these people will respond.
Now, for all of you, How many like, and just slow stop for a second. Everybody on this call, if you go back to like I'll stop sharing just to see you all again.
If a student from your university where to pick up the phone and give you a call and say, hey, I want to learn a little bit more about your entrepreneurial journey or what it's been like to be at X or whatever.
How many of you would take that call? Right? And it's going to be a higher portion of you, probably not everybody, but and a lot.
And again, that's what you're tapping into for yourself. Now, by a show of hands, how many of you have 2, 3, 4 universities associated with your company right now?
Right? Think about those lead lists that you're going to be creating through this lens. And by the way, in 15 min, through taxonomy, through word search, and through university affiliation, I give you lead lists that you can utilize tactically on your own.
Like literally I can drop the microphone walk off right now. Good luck, right? But I'm gonna take you further down the rabbit hole.
And we're gonna go into the next thing, which is talent. So, talent is a fascinating thing for me.
So I've worked at LinkedIn and Michigan State University and I won in Career Services and LinkedIn, obviously, the number one, representation of professional development information.
The world. By your personal and professional identity of record. So, I love the talent space and the pattern matching that I've been able to do through the conversations I've had with our founders.
It's pretty interesting in this space. And so this isn't like Doesn't pass pass PHC methodology, but I think it will resonate with most of you.
Your first 10 hires, 10 to 15 hires, generally come out of network. So you hire people you know or people they know.
Person second level connections and it's amazing how that dovetails with what Reed was looking at.
Through you know week ties first level the week ties. At that point you end up hiring somebody in HR they brought out the funnel and you search to attract talent from everywhere.
But early on, you attract talent through network. If that's the case, I want to turn you into headhunters.
So I want to help you identify the talent that's in your network. Actively, cause you're already doing it passively.
Now, Pre COVID, about 90% of our companies. At the early level recruited out of network first and second level and in their backyard.
So if I were building my company in San Francisco. I recruited in San Francisco early and then. Brought out the funnel at some point.
And about 10% of the companies were intentionally distributed. You just went for the best talent all over the world.
And I can do both and I'm gonna do both for you in a second. Post COVID that's turned to about 50 50 and actually pretty much everybody who's still recruiting their backyard is now also looking for the best talent everywhere.
So like the models shipped it a little bit, but I'm gonna show you how I can use some of these tools.
To help me out. So is anybody hiring a position right now?
Nelson, I already use you. I got it. Is there somebody else who's hiring?
Kevin. Oh, Antonio, perfect.
All right, Antonio. Wait, wait, who just popped up? Oh, Kevin. All right, Kevin did raise the hand in the etiquette way on Zoom.
So Kevin, go for it. What are you doing? What are you?
Yeah, sure. Yep. So we're kind of in the process right now for looking for a graphic designer.
Okay. Where are you base?
New York.
And then, what does your company do?
We are hospitality technology. We identify customers through payments. Closely.
Alright, so hospitality. I and graphic design New York City, right? So we use those as the play out, right?
Yep. Restaurants specifically.
Restaurants. Alright, so you've given me a whole host of things to work off of now.
Yeah.
Alright, so, let me share my screen. I'll jump back in and we'll actually run through this for you.
And stay off, or stay, Unmuted, so that I can ask you questions as we go along.
Sure.
So, so first of all, I like the filtering for, for universities on this, but I can also use general search.
So let's start with the university side. So I might look at like Cornell, which is known for hospitality business, or I might look at schools like New York.
NYU, Columbia, like that are right in the Sunnis, like right in my market, right?
And I can go through all of these very quickly. To see all the people on my network that represent what I'm looking for.
So I can go to the alumni tool and I'm looking at my backyard and you can do this for all your respective cities.
I want those people who are in New York City, right? The easiest ones to go after. And then I want those people.
Who are skilled at graphic design.
64, 6, 6,004 and 64. All right, so you're working in hospitality.
I'm curious.
That's broken. Alright, quick check. We can see if anybody is there a major of hospitality at NYU.
Any idea?
That's you, Kevin. Any idea?
Yeah, I'm not sure actually.
There is not as a NYU alum.
Yeah, yup, and it's just showing that way. So we're gonna we're in a plate because I actually am fascinated to see how this would work with Cornell.
So I'm gonna use Cornell and take it into New York and they do have hospitality. So, when I come here.
There's a reason I do doing this because you lay it in restaurants. It makes it, even more interesting because I can get to a specific group of people.
So, 58,000 and I want those people who studied hospitality. Okay, so, hotel management. I don't have hospitality itself.
The reason that, something's wrong with their search right now, so this isn't me.
But I can trick it to get to what I want. So I'm looking for major. There we go.
So hospitality does pop up. Right? There's one of the things. And I'm gonna take hospitality out of here and I'm gonna look at all those people who went to Cornell that are New York City in hospitality that are also scaled at.
Graphic design.
15 and I want anybody who has typed the word restaurant on their profile. 7. And I want all those people.
Who are director and direct connection. Here the 2 people who fit that. Right? So if I'm looking for network, I want to identify through a series of words that talent that I'm looking for here and right the most think about what we just did like I just took a billion people down to these 2 people that I have connection to.
Now, better yet, I see a cross connector. Felix helps run the entrepreneurial programming.
I'm actually speaking at Cornell Tech in New York City. Tomorrow. I at their program this I'll be driving down, to hang out and Felix will be there.
So like I'll literally tell him that I just did this and he popped up so I'll love to hear that.
But what this tells me is they're entrepreneurial because they're connected to Felix.
They have restaurants connected to them. They're in graphic design. They graduated from hospitality business and they live in New York. Right?
So if I reach out to Eden or if I reach out to Jamie and say I do it through Felix or Jenni who's former textures things like that.
And Nicole who's former LinkedIn, like if I reach out to any of these people, There are 3 things they can do.
On that outreach. Number one, I'm not interested in a job with you and that's probably the most likely.
No harm. We just did this in 10 s. Right. And I can do all these searches, by the way, on that same thing where I did angel investor and wine tech and stuff like that.
Second, I am interested. You just qualify to lead through network. You're hiring like this anyway.
You might as well be proactive to find the talent you're looking for and go through their resumes really quickly on here.
And number 3, not interested, but I'll share with my network. Who are they networks with other graphic designers who appreciate hospitality and New York City, right?
So it opens up. You to that network. Now you can imagine how you can use this for engineers or sales or whatever other categories you're looking for.
You can use this for engineers or sales or whatever other categories you're looking for. And again, we took Cornell, which is outside of New York, and brought it in.
So this is, you know, the approach of looking at it intentionally distributed and we could take New York out of the equation and you could see all the people who fit that from Cornell saying this is the best school to go after and I can see the relationships I have with each one of those people as well.
So I can broaden out the lens and get go for the best talent anywhere. So you could target schools like MIT for engineering or Stanford or you could look at LBS or NCI for business schools or whatever, right?
This allows you to head hunt for yourself. Now third thing I want to go into is customer acquisition.
So I'll come off screen again. And for all of you. Name a company that you're trying to sell into.
Any company.
Just unmute.
Left? Like ride share left? Is that what we're looking for?
Yeah, left employees trying to sell to lift employees.
David. Alright, so you're trying to reach the people who are actually driving lifts.
Not driving them. They're like software engineers or people like prefer
Oh, I got you. Okay, cool. Alright, this is a cool one. Alright, so let's do lift.
I'm toast. I actually know, some of the founders, Kevin, wherever you were.
Shoot me a note after this. I'll make a connection. But, I, let's go, let's do lift as part of this.
So I'm a big fan of the company information that's available. On LinkedIn just as an aside how many of you have company pages on LinkedIn
Alright. A little kind of gift for you. You can actualize people who follow you, and they generally fall into 4 buckets.
Number one, they are friends and family. The Rawat cheering you on. You can move them to the side. They're awesome, but not for what I'm about to talk about.
Number 2, there people want to use your product and service. So people are literally raising their hand to utilize you if you're not actualizing that, you know, you're missing out on an opportunity.
Third, there people want to work at your company, so it's potential talent acquisition for the people who wanna mentor invest in you.
Up to about 2,000 followers you can kind of keep track of that and try to actualize it and then it gets a little bit more unwieldy and difficult but just a little trunk.
So share my screen again, jump back in. We'll look at lift it as a company page.
So company pages similar to a university pages map. I the employees of an organization or company. So there's like super good information and insights here.
And who was lift by the way? I'm sorry. I missed that.
This is David.
David, David, how are you doing, bud? Alright, so, one of the things that I would do early on with this, David, Lyft has paid LinkedIn for this life button.
Most small, that I know some of you are selling in the SMBs aren't going to have this.
But if they know some of you are selling in the SMBs aren't going to have this.
But if they do have this button, if I go down here, it's a series of testimonials and videos about what it's like to work at left.
What lift will use here are their values. They'll use the words that are important that separate them from working at like say Uber, right?
Why that is important to you is they're telling you how to speak their language. You can use these words back at them at pitch a product and service.
So they're telling you how to be more effective at pitching them. Which is pretty cool. Now, I if I come back into home.
If it's a small, if the light button isn't here, I can get that same kind of information off the top end of job descriptions.
So cool there. For those in SMBs, it's sometimes hard to pattern match on sales.
So if you sell into one, it's hard to see 20 other companies that are similar to that.
LinkedIn actually does you a solid over here. It looks at people also viewed pages based on pattern matching.
So you can see the 20 companies that are most similar to Lyft. For all of you, 20 companies most similar to the company you sold into.
This is also good to see how you're getting pattern matched, and within the system who's similar to you in the space.
Now the thing I really want to show you and David Explain who you would be selling into again for me
And so we're, B to C, direct to consumer. And so we're trying to sell this product to the people who work that lift and What we're building is protection for equity compensation.
So. Almost like insurance for their stock packages. And we're
All right, so you're trying to reach people who are in HR or finance. Who would be so like it's for the employees for like RSUs or options and stuff like that right?
Exactly.
Alright, so, let's, we're gonna go into this search, which is John Hill in a box.
It's now on every company page. So I can see every employee. Who works at lift by where they live, where they study, what they do, what their skilled at and how you connected to them.
So on skills. I assume shows up.
No, Randy may or may not be the right person. I can't tell on this. Let's play around with this.
Give me some terms of who you retarded to sell into that, David. Help me out a little bit here.
Equity.
Equity. Essentially search here.
So we're gonna search the whole set and see who we come up with. And that person would Probably.
Yeah.
So here, I mean, this is a compensation manager, right? So Ashley connects me to her.
But, so I definitely have a connection of a connection. Oh, here's another one.
Director. Equity compensation. So 2 people here that pop up right away. And they probably are the right people.
Get down. 60, what are the search terms? So I wonder if they're in operations.
They are not in operations. So, Alicia and Lamont. Are in Finance?
There we go. So they're actually in the finance department. All right. So the what I why I did that David is I'm trying to reverse engineer who these decision makers are in the company with search terms so that I can apply this to every company I searched from this point forward.
So I can always find the right people based on, how they show up in this search. So like, obviously I can mobilize these people to connect into them and probably what I would do is go, I definitely would do, go into her profile or his profile and then start to read down to see affiliation and connection.
So she's been doing this kind of administrative this stock administration for a while connected with Twitter. I've got it on friends that were at Twitter probably during this time frame that I could potentially reach out to and have conversation with.
I went to Oregon. I have any associations with that. You utilize that. Same with Santa Clara.
I can look at, you know, is this somebody who plays off affiliation? So, you know, She joined the University of Oregon.
University group. So she's one of those people would raise her hand to help out.
Students, which means she's a potential friendly to engage with. So I like I can start to get some insights into who she is out of this.
Now before I reached out to Alicia or before I reached out to Lamont or, you know, did that affordable email to my friends.
I'd actually try to do some due diligence about these people. So I'd actually try to do some due diligence about these people. So equity and compensation were 2 of the search terms here.
Here So I'm gonna play off of David, where'd you go to school?
We're in a small school in Maine, Bates College.
Oh, I love bait. That's awesome. Another one of the little, totally know it.
Colby, like all the Small schools up there. So I can look at all the people who used to work at Lyft.
Now with Bates, it's a small footprint, so there may not be anybody here, but let's take a look.
What I would do if I were you is look for anybody who went debates that used to work at Lyft.
And there are actually 4. Very quickly I can go down and see if any of them are compensation.
None of them are. So I could reach out to any of these people and say, Hey, listen, I'm trying to sell into left.
I'm trying to get an understanding of what it's like to navigate that company. They're now affiliated with me more than they are with Lyft because of Bates and they will likely tell me the right people to connect to the right approach, how to sell into it.
Now Bates probably not the most effective one for you on this one because it's a small result.
So let's look at connections and see if there are anybody in first and second level. Connections that used to work there.
And for me, I get about a thousand and then I can use search terms. Like compensation. And I can navigate network to connect into these people.
And so like Stacy. Used to be, director of compensation of benefits and lifts.
And lift is now total rewards at Coinbase. She used to work with, she knows Robbie Quark.
Robbie was one of the people who hired me at LinkedIn. Robbie also was the VP of HR for Slack.
I and I owns a Korean restaurant in San Francisco. I barbecued at his house.
I know his family. We used to play basketball at 7 a. M. In the morning.
I before we worked at LinkedIn, if I were to ask him to connect with Stacey, it can almost guarantee he would through that relationship and knowing how Robbie Brokers relationships Stacey would likely also give me the due diligence about how to navigate and connect into Lyft and is a potential additional sale into something like Coinbase.
All right, Vincent, I saw you have your hand up. What's up?
Yes, so as you were going through this and you mentioned again the university connection I was like, Abra, a remote student because I lived at home with my parents when I went to college.
So I didn't like have it that tight affiliation. However, what I'm realizing is that A lot of people that do have that kind of, is because it was like their local community and really what they association here is family.
You have a maximum amount of trust Bay and then people that went to the same university likely grew up in that region and that's you have that same commonality.
So is it fair to say that like the gradient that you should be looking at is like the amount of trust that you have and that smears into probability of them connecting you to somebody else.
Yeah, I mean, I think like what one of the reasons I put it into buckets is it's much easier to kind of structure how you approach through it.
Yeah.
And I honestly you just hit into something that I generally don't talk about, but I also think is a strong affiliation.
Which is geography. So like if you didn't have the education you could play off geography and and how that works for like when you talk about main.
So David, like any manners that are hanging out in San Francisco, they feel a sense of community because they realize how far away they are from their home state to operate in the hyper-economic zone like San Francisco.
Those are great people to connect into. So like Spot on, Vincent, like the university one is just an easy one to structure.
Yeah.
And I know how powerful it is. But like you can play off other affiliations and by the way other associations.
Yeah, okay, cool.
So. So let me go into last 3 things and then I'll wrap. I think we've got about 7 min so cover this pretty quickly.
Who's read your profile? If you pitch product and service to somebody and they look at your profile after you pitch product and service, they're interested.
They wouldn't look otherwise. If you pitch products in service to somebody and somebody else in the company who's not in the meeting looks at your profile, they're talking about you.
Really good, spectacularly bad. I have no idea, but at least it's an input, right?
You can know that. Linkedin has become an incredible marking. Platform. And for all of you, your individual profiles are rich media enabled.
I would put investment deck light on there. I would put videos about what you're doing on there and then all your employees should do the same thing so that anybody who comes into any of the people associated with your company can see some marketing materials on your profile.
That's one thing. You're all being asked to be content producers as well to develop a brand around yourself and your company.
And when I built my company. And when I built my company in 97 that didn't exist.
And when I built my company, and when I built my company, 97, that didn't exist.
A couple of tricks for you just to make it easier because most of you just to make it easier because most of you are not content people is the average person can only remember 4 things about you are not content people is the average person can only remember 4 things about you And so if you follow me on social, you'll see I only post about 4 really specific categories.
Linkedin. Texars, Michigan State in Boston. And then I can go deep in each one of those.
Like LinkedIn, I can get into networking with textures. I can get in to entrepreneurship.
But, but I only focus on those 4 categories. So for all of you try to pick what those important things are and you utilize it as content you support.
The second thing is there's a philosophy called C create once published everywhere and the idea is that you take the quintessential germ of what you're trying to communicate and then just shipped it a little bit for every medium that you're speaking.
And unfortunately, like. The methods of communication are definitely like fragmented right now. But if I'm speaking on LinkedIn, it's where business takes place.
If I'm speaking on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok, right? It's a steady stream of information that people are interested in right now.
If I'm on Facebook, it's the bar, right? So the communications a little bit differently.
But I can take that. One piece and not have to recreate the wheel again and again. LinkedIn actually does a good job.
A much better job at helping you influence through content. So they're doing things like video podcasts and stuff like that through the creator tool.
But they're actually tracking your content through views. And it's allowing you to see are you good at the content you're putting out or could you be more effective?
And it's doing it based on who's responding to content. So if I go into here and look at one of the posts that I just made.
If I scroll down and I view analytics, so 3,500 people have engaged with this.
When I come down to company size, I can actually look at job titles to see if the right people are.
I speak to founders co-founders to see if the right people are responding. I speak to founders co-founders all the time.
If I'm not reaching co-founders and founders, that's an issue with my content.
Right? And so I can AB test on content to see, all right, is there content that resonates more with founders or less and then lean into what resonates more.
But whatever your respect to customers, or less, and then lean into what resonates more. But whatever your respective customers are, you can do the same thing.
Now, last, I'm a huge believer in watering network and founders specifically are not necessarily great at this, you're just in time on relationships, this can also be formulated.
So, I look at notifications every day. I look at changes in people's networks, here.
And so like I will definitely shoot Lauren a note. Based on seeing this because we worked at LinkedIn together.
But I try to take 20 actions a day. Every day Monday through Friday. And so in the notification section, I can see when people move from one city to another one country or another, I'll introduce them to people I know in those cities countries, just connect people together and give them some, you know, familiarity.
If somebody's moved to a new company, I'll introduce them to people I know at the company.
If I know people there. Somebody's celebrating something here like with Lauren. I'll shoot Lauren a direct message.
I won't hit the like button. I'll like cut through the clutter. I do that 20 times a day.
I do that 100 times a week. I do that 5,000 times a year. I'm celebrating something that somebody's doing in their professional network.
I keep my network warm. If I ask any of those people to help you out, they're likely to do it.
Or more likely to do it because of that. So just focus on intentionality around your network and supporting it.
So I'm gonna run through this last part. Speed a light because we're down to the last 3 min.
Like every other, venture organization, we have transactional wins. And this, how like the VC landscape generally talks about those things.
Like we sent the first company to go public out of an accelerator through SENGRE. Only talks about those things. Like we sent the first company to go public out of an accelerator through SENGRE.
They ended up getting acquired a little bit later by Twilio for 3.1 billion dollars would be that's like a big deal right I pillpack was acquired by Amazon to become their online pharmacy for a billion US dollars and their Boston base in my backyard. So I always bring them up.
Digital Ocean, third largest cloud based hosting service in the world. And I one of our 6 companies go public, right?
That's how VC talks about these things, but you can tell that I always view things through a lens of emotion and connectivity.
And so I view it a little bit different in each one of those situations. Isaac Selvana at 14 years old.
Left his parents in Mexico to live with his aunt and uncle in LA. First generation university student built a company that was acquired for 3.1 billion dollars.
Now, if any of you have ever met Isaac, he would rather talk to code than people.
Beautiful human i'm just more of an introvert than anything He's our biggest success story, so we throw him on stages all over the world.
In 2,019, he's in OC, I can buy an island at that point.
We convince him to fly from LA to turn Italy to share with the Italian entrepreneurial ecosystem his story.
He does it because he wants to get back. He wants to give first, right? TJ and Elliott, the 2 founders of Pill Pack, post acquisition with Amazon hosts all founders mentors and investors in their offices talk about what it was like to go through an acquisition process with a company like Amazon.
They didn't have to do that. They wanted to get back. They wanted to give first. My favorite story, Moise and Ben Yoretski, 2 Russian immigrants to New York, tried to get into Texas several times.
And they finally get into Colorado, our Boulder program. They have the notoriety of being the only founder to get in a physical fist fight during program.
I don't have any of you do that. Please do not. They reconcile. They are brothers and they ended up going on kind of a rocket ship ride.
In that process, Moise went to Ben and there are other rocket ship ride. In that process, Moisei went to Ben and there are other co-founder Mitch Wayner and said listen I need to leave I'm having a mental break I can't do this anymore.
And they worked it so he could take 6 months off to get the help he needed. When he was ready, he came back into the organization and at the end of the day, rang the bell when they went public.
Moisey now lives in Miami. In a penthouse in Biscayne Bay, overlooking Biscayne Bay, probably for tax reasons, driving Grand Prix cars.
He's a super unique character. Moise has now spoken at 35 Texas programs about mental health.
He rips that band-aid off again and again and again and He does it because he wants to get back and give first.
Our biggest success stories financially are also some of our best stories around that idea and concept to give first.
All of you take out of this network as much as possible right now. We give you full permission to do that.
When you make it, get back. Get first. Give to the next generation of entrepreneurs. Keep this flywheel going. It's in your hands.
Now, being an entrepreneur is one of the most difficult things in the world. It's like jumping off the cliff and trying to build the plane before it hits the ground.
And by the way, those people, mate, fast majority of people don't wanna be you, but they wanna watch you jump off that cliff.
The, Kuffman Foundation, looked at the new start rate of companies full year, 2021.
It was point 3 4% in the US. So out of a hundred 1,000 people only 350,000 people only 340 started any company.
You're already a hundred 1,000 people only 340 started any company. You're already a unicorn before you try to be a unicorn before you try to be a unicorn. Right?
If those people turn them into ambassadors, leverage their networks, right? Because they want to live vicariously through your experience.
But there are helpers out there who want to extend the runway and bring the ground up. Textures is one of those.
There are definitely others out there. Lean in to those people to help yourself. Entrepreneurs are the most amazing brilliant people on earth.
You all are. I can say that about you. Don't say that about yourself. That's just weird.
But you are amazing human beings.
I have had the good fortune of talking in groups like this. And watching people, 2, 3 people companies.
Go public. In the 10 years I've been here, I've seen that journey. I've seen 2 3 people companies get acquired for a billion US dollars.
They have witnessed that. So I talked about build a network before you need it. So it's, when you do build a quality network, but the most important thing and it's what drives me to do this again and again and again is we get to be supportive and helpful of dreams, of dreams, continuing to dream big.
And know that you have a team. A group of people who will support you and any way they can.
For all of you, I appreciate the time and attention. I am Pretty much on a road show right now.
I think this is the 48 talk I've given so far since January first and I will continue to do this and I only done like 3 or 4 virtually and I wish I was with all of you.
But please take me up on that offer. That if I can support and help you out, if you want to set up meetings, talk, I'm here for you.
And otherwise, good luck to all of you. You're in great hands. These are some of my favorite people that are surrounding you and I don't say that to every program.
So.
Thanks, John. That was awesome. Do you have time for like 3 rapid fire questions that are in the chat?
Yeah, I'm good.
You really fast. So first, really quick, roton asked, do we need a premium account to access the full search feature?
I got a little trick for you. Alright, stop recording me.
Okay